---
layout: post
title: "A quick fix for loading big Vim add ons"
description: "This is not my first blog post."
tags: [spelling, vim]
image:
  feature: teh.jpg
  credit: imouzon
  creditlink: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teh
  comments: true
share: true
---

# Getting spelling right with AutoCorrect()

One of my favorite tools in vim is [AutoCorrect](https://github.com/panozzaj/vim-autocorrect 'panozzaj AutoCorrect').
It works almost seamlessly with files that contain both code and writing, like
Rmarkdown files, and is very good at fixing my more common typos (t-e-h, sep-e-rate and so on).
Additionally, it is very satisfying to watch typos disappear as I write them.

However, there is one small issue that I could not get over - when AutoCorrect loads
Vim hangs for a second or two. Not severe, but still aggravating. In fact, just aggravating
enough that right on the github page it points out that calling it in the `.vimrc` is not the
best idea. It's just enough time that you lose focus on what you were about to do.

# Losing focus
The good news is that Vim knows if it is in focus or not, i.e., it knows if you are
the Vim window is the active window. This gives the chance to write a nice little
bit of code:

{% highlight vim %}
   "How many times has focus been lost (initially = 0)
   let g:autoCorrect_run = 0

   "automatically call autocorrect if focus is lost
   function! AutoAutoCorrect()
      if g:autoCorrect_run == 0
         call AutoCorrect()
         let g:autoCorrect_run = 1
      endif
   endfunction

   au FocusLost * :call AutoAutoCorrect()
{% endhighlight %}

the first part creates a global variable and sets it to 0. The function
`AutoAutoCorrect()` calls `AutoCorrect()` as long as the value
of that global variable is 0 and then changes the value of that
global variable to 1.
Finally,  the `au FocusLost` command calls `AutoAutoCorrect()`
when focus is lost, meaning that the
first time focus is lost it will call `AutoCorrect()` but there after it
will do nothing.

