---
layout: post
title: "The Role of Prior Selection in Bayesian Analysis"
description: "The role of prior selection."
tags: [Bayes, sampling, prior selection, R]
image:
  feature: abstract-6.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
comments: true
share: true
---

##Where did you get that distribution?!
There is a story at Iowa State (this goes back longer than I have been here, 
by a decade at least) about a very anti-Bayesian professor in the stat department
who would, every time a visiting speaker would introduce a Bayesian analysis, 
demand that he or she answer "who gave your that prior!?" 

Of course, I don't even know if there are people today who could be
properly considered "anti" Bayes, but back in the day this was apparently
a fairly common complaint. The only answer is that the prior distributions
are just made up (naturally though, supported by a lot of evidence and hard work).

In a recent homework for [Dr. Jarad Niemi's](http://niemiconsulting.com) Bayes class,
the student's were asked to imitate a bayesian analysis and judge the performance
of various estimators. For 1000 cases a \(\lambda\) was used to generate 5 data 
values from a Poisson distribution (i.e., \(y_1, y_2, \ldots, y_5 \sim Po(\lambda)\).
In each of the cases the \(\lambda\) was generated from a 
Gamma with shape and scale parameters both equal to 1. 
We then temporarily forget the value of \(\lambda\) used to generate
the data and try to estimate it using the five data values produced
as well as the knowledge of our "prior" distribution and our data model
(the Gamma and the Poisson, respectively). A nice result of pairing these
two specific distributions together is that, once we know the data, 
the resulting distribution used to estimate the parameters is a Gamma 
distribution with shape parameter \(a = 1 + \sum y_i\) and scale parameter \(b = 1 + 5\)
(as we always want in a bayesian scenario, the data changes our belief
about the true nature of things).

However, what if we had a belief about the true value of \(\lambda\) that 
could be modeled according to a Gamma as above, but the actual values of \(\lambda\)
were _not_ being generated from such a distribution. How much would that influence
our results?

For instance, suppose that instead of 1000 \(\lambda\) values generated from a gamma(1,1)
we had 1000 lambda values generated from an exponential(1) or even an exponential(1/100)?
How would this distort our analysis? How important is it that we get our prior correct?

##The analysis


